Platform Sample description and installation guidance (#4394)
Particular/docs.particular.net: platform/platform-sample-package.md

---
title: Platform Sample Installation
summary: Installation instructions for using the platform sample for demo purposes.
component: PlatformSample
reviewed: 2019-06-16
---

> The Platform Sample can be used to demonstrate the platform without actually fully installing it. This is the easiest way to get some experience to learn the Particular Service Platform. It is also possible to include and show the platform in presentations or samples. It is also possible to (temporarily) include it in a custom Visual Studio solution for demonstration purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Platform Sample package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Particular.PlatformSample) is a portable version of the Particular Service Platform which can be used to demonstrate the platform without installing it. This is the easiest way to experience the Particular Service Platform. It is also possible to include and show the platform in demos or samples.
```

> DANGER: The Platform Sample is not for production usage and should only be used for demonstrating it during presentations or in samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: The Platform Sample is not for production usage and should only be used for demonstrating it during presentations or in samples.
```

> The Platform Sample package includes the binaries of ServiceControl and ServiceControl.Monitoring and a self-hosted version of ServicePulse. All are configured to use the LearningTransport and don't support any other transports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Platform Sample package includes ServiceControl, ServiceControl.Monitoring, and ServicePulse. All are configured to use the [Learning Transport](/transports/learning/) and don't support any other transports.
```

> ## Sample

Reviewer: Shouldn't this section come after installation? Seems like that should be the focus of this article.

The [Message Replay Tutorial](/tutorials/message-replay) is a sample that includes the Platform Sample and is used to view and retry failed messages. It can be used to verify how the Platform Sample works from within an existing Visual Studio solution.

To have ServiceInsight use the sample, [download](https://github.com/Particular/serviceinsight/releases/latest) and install ServiceInsight. Then connect to `http://localhost:49200/api` from the [Endpoint Explorer](/serviceinsight/#endpoint-explorer) to connect to the running Service Control.

> Note: If port `49200` is in use by another process, the Platform Sample console application will start by outputting the used port.

Reviewer: It just finds a range of ports. If 49199 alone is taken, then 49200 will still not be what you expect. Might be better to say to look through the output and note the correct port.

## Installation

> Within an existing Visual Studio solution a new console application needs to be added. Within that project, the following steps need to be executed:

Reviewer: You hid instructions in the preface. Creating a console app should be one of the numbered instructions.

1. Add a reference to the `Particular.PlatformSample` NuGet package.
1. Add the following code

> ```CSharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cs
```

> static void Main(string[] args)

Reviewer: You made a component, right? Shouldn't this be a legit snippet? Otherwise if we change the API we won't break anything.

(Granted the project probably needs APIApprovals and doesn't have it, but still...)

Author: The plan was to use an existing sample (in my case, even a tutorial, although the same code is probably elsewhere too). It's only a single line of code. And if I'm correct, I cannot reuse snippets from a global location or some other sample/tutorial, correct?

{
    Particular.PlatformLauncher.Launch();
}
```

The package will perform the following actions upon execution:

1. Copy platform binaries into the project output directory.
1. Find available ports for all the platform tools.

> 1. Find .learningtransport directory and folders for logging.

Reviewer: Is all this detail necessary?

Author: Just copied this from the GitHub repo, but I guess not :-)

1. Launch ServiceControl with modified config file.
1. Launch ServiceControl.Monitoring with modified config file.
1. Serve the ServiceControl web assets using the Kestrel HTTP server.
1. Wait for the ServiceControl API to be responsive.
1. Open a browser window pointing to the ServicePulse UI.

## Options

The `PlatformLauncher.Launch()` API has very limited options available as optional parameters, which can be mixed as needed.

### Showing console output

By default the console outputs of ServiceControl and ServiceControl.Monitoring are suppressed. To view them for purposes of debugging or curiosity, use the `showPlatformToolConsoleOutput` parameter:

> ```CSharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cs
```

> Particular.PlatformLauncher.Launch(showPlatformToolConsoleOutput: true);

Reviewer: Also should be a legit snippet.

```

### ServicePulse default route

Some samples benefit from opening ServicePulse to a specific view, rather than the Dashboard.

For example, to open ServicePulse to the Monitoring view:

```CSharp

> Particular.PlatformLauncher.Launch(servicePulseDefaultRoute: "/monitoring");

Reviewer: legit snippet
